data/content/Whites and Yellows.md, before:

Whites and Yellows
==================

![Whites](/asset/photo/Whites.jpg) ![Yellows](/asset/photo/Yellows.jpg)

Family: PIERIDAE

This family includes the familiar 'Cabbage Whites' and their allies. Due to their larger size and conspicuous colouring, they are much more noticeable. They, and especially the Yellows move around more too, being in the more mobile categories of butterflies.

Clouded Yellow (Colias croceus)
-------------------------------

![Clouded Yellow](/asset/photo/Clouded%20Yellow.jpg)

This is a quite common migrant most years in the south of England, but not so further north. To date there have only been four summers when it has visited our garden. Due to its erratic migration this far north into Britain, it may be years before we see it here again. Even if they breed whilst here, the caterpillars cannot survive our winters. The butterflies are much more beautiful than can be appreciated from photos, because they never open their wings when settled, therefore their real beauty is only discerned in flight, when they look like miniature AA vans hurrying through the flowers!

CURRENT STATUS: infrequent migrant - seen 1998, 2000, 2002, 2014.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: clover.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; scabious; Verbena bonariensis; knapweed; Liatris spicata.

WHEN SEEN: June and July, then offspring seen August and September.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: purely migratory - a guest species.

Brimstone (Gonepteryx rhamni)
-----------------------------

![Male Brimstone](/asset/photo/Brimstone%20male.jpg) ![Female Brimstone](/asset/photo/Brimstone%20female.jpg)

The bright butter yellow is only present in the male, the female is a greenish-white colour, but in flight can easily be mistaken for a Large White.

![Open winged Brimstone](/asset/photo/open-winged.jpg)

I am fascinated by the males in spring (their breeding season) when they tirelessly patrol the whole garden and beyond in search of females. It is a wonderful sight.

CURRENT STATUS: uncommon. Breeds on site but has yet to show in good numbers. Despite counting thirty seven larvae in 2017, and that was just the low level buckthorn branches, only five butterflies were seen that summer!

LARVAL FOODPLANTS: alder and purging buckthorn. (Brimstone egg) (Brimstone larva)

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: buddleia; red campion; dame's-violet; honesty; broad bean; rose campion; scabious spp.; montbretia; hemp agrimony; fox-and-cubs; red phlox; clover; mallow.

WHEN SEEN: hibernate as adults, so can be seen as soon as the spring weather is warm enough, up until late June. The offspring fly from late July until entering hibernation, usually around September - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: a wealth of the foodplant if you want these wanderers to stay with you. Even then they may decide to wander off on their missions.

This is the longest living British butterfly, the adults living for almost a year including hibernation. They hibernate in evergreen bushes, bramble, or ivy, where they look like leaves themselves.

They breed in the spring only, and the new butterflies that emerge in the high summer wander extensively.

Large White (Pieris brassicae)
------------------------------

![Male Large White](/asset/photo/Large%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Large White](/asset/photo/Large%20White%20female.jpg)

This, and the related Small White, are the two notorious 'Cabbage Whites'. These butterflies wander freely, looking for two things: nectar to keep them fuelled and brassica crops to lay their eggs on. Obviously all gardens have one or both, so these butterflies are very much at home in gardens. We do not actively encourage these two species, but in view of their mobility just mentioned and our garden being a haven for butterflies anyway, we get very good numbers of them. 

CURRENT STATUS: Very common visitor. We do not regularly grow brassicas in our garden - the butterfly often breeds on alternative foodplants grown for the encouragement of the Green-veined White and Orange Tip.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Brassica crops. Also uses honesty, dame's-violet, and garlic mustard.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; verbena bonariensis; red campion; honesty; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; runner bean; marjoram; knapweed; thistles.

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: None - a true pioneer species.

Small White (Pieris rapae)
--------------------------

![Male Small White](/asset/photo/Small%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Small White](/asset/photo/Small%20White%20female.jpg)

CURRENT STATUS: Very common, sometimes abundant visitor. We do not regularly grow brassicas in our garden - the butterfly breeds on alternative foodplants that occur in the garden.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Brassica crops. Garlic mustard, horse radish, oil seed rape.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; verbena bonariensis; marjoram; honesty; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; aubretia; knapweed; thistles; bramble; privet; dandelion; ice plant; Michaelmas daisy;

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: None - a true pioneer species.

Green-veined White (Pieris napi)
--------------------------------

![Male Green-veined White](/asset/photo/Green-veined%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Green-veined White](/asset/photo/Green-veined%20White%20female.jpg)

Same sexual differences as for the two previous species. The underside markings are a clear distinction between this and the similar sized Small White - the veins of the wings being noticeably picked out in green, as its name suggests.

This is NOT a Cabbage White. Although the larvae of the two Cabbage Whites will eat the foodplants of the Green-veined, it never happens vice versa. These are true butterflies of the countryside, their caterpillars feeding mostly on wild plants.

CURRENT STATUS: Very well established resident.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Garlic mustard, cuckoo flower, honesty, dame's-violet, oil seed rape and related crucifers. NEVER brassica crops.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; marjoram; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; aubretia; honesty; bramble; privet; verbena bonariensis; knapweed; hemp agrimony.

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - September.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: Seemingly very happy here without any specific attention other than the provision of larval foodplants.

Orange Tip (Anthocharis cardamines)
-----------------------------------

![Male Orange Tip](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20male.jpg) ![Female Orange Tip](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20female.jpg)

This is the true harbinger of spring, from April onwards. Only the male has the distinctive orange tip to the forewings. To the novice, females could be mistaken for one of the other Whites, but the underside mottling is a sure give away. Unlike the other Whites, this butterfly is only seen in the spring. This is because the caterpillars eat the developing seed pods of the various foodplants, which are only available in the early months of the season, not the leaves as with the other species that are double brooded.

![Camouflage at its best. When settled with wings tightly closed on umbellifers and the like, the Orange Tip blends in perfectly with the background.](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20camouflage.jpg)

CURRENT STATUS: Very well established resident.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Garlic mustard, cuckoo flower, honesty, dame's-violet, charlock, oil seed rape.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Dame's-violet; honesty; aubretia; red campion; dandelion; bluebell.  

WHEN SEEN: April - June.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: Untidiness!! Orange Tips provide two good examples of how a wildlife garden cannot be kept too tidy. Every picture tells a story:

![Orange Tip larva](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20larva.jpg) ![Orange Tip pupa](/asset/photo/Orange%20tip%20pupa.jpg)

Commit message:

typo: clouded yellow section fixes #19

data/content/Whites and Yellows.md, after:

Whites and Yellows
==================

![Whites](/asset/photo/Whites.jpg) ![Yellows](/asset/photo/Yellows.jpg)

Family: PIERIDAE

This family includes the familiar 'Cabbage Whites' and their allies. Due to their larger size and conspicuous colouring, they are much more noticeable. They, and especially the Yellows move around more too, being in the more mobile categories of butterflies.

Clouded Yellow (Colias croceus)
-------------------------------

![Clouded Yellow](/asset/photo/Clouded%20Yellow.jpg)

This is a quite common migrant most years in the south of England, but not so further north. To date there have only been four summers when it has visited our garden. Due to its erratic migration this far north into Britain, it may be years before we see it here again. Even if they breed whilst here, the caterpillars cannot survive our winters. The butterflies are much more beautiful than can be appreciated from photos, because they never open their wings when settled, therefore their real beauty is only discerned in flight, a striking yellow and black combo!

CURRENT STATUS: infrequent migrant - seen 1998, 2000, 2002, 2014.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: clover.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: buddleia; scabious; verbena bonariensis; knapweed; liatris spicata.

WHEN SEEN: June and July, then offspring seen August and September.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: purely migratory - a guest species.

Brimstone (Gonepteryx rhamni)
-----------------------------

![Male Brimstone](/asset/photo/Brimstone%20male.jpg) ![Female Brimstone](/asset/photo/Brimstone%20female.jpg)

The bright butter yellow is only present in the male, the female is a greenish-white colour, but in flight can easily be mistaken for a Large White.

![Open winged Brimstone](/asset/photo/open-winged.jpg)

I am fascinated by the males in spring (their breeding season) when they tirelessly patrol the whole garden and beyond in search of females. It is a wonderful sight.

CURRENT STATUS: uncommon. Breeds on site but has yet to show in good numbers. Despite counting thirty seven larvae in 2017, and that was just the low level buckthorn branches, only five butterflies were seen that summer!

LARVAL FOODPLANTS: alder and purging buckthorn. (Brimstone egg) (Brimstone larva)

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: buddleia; red campion; dame's-violet; honesty; broad bean; rose campion; scabious spp.; montbretia; hemp agrimony; fox-and-cubs; red phlox; clover; mallow.

WHEN SEEN: hibernate as adults, so can be seen as soon as the spring weather is warm enough, up until late June. The offspring fly from late July until entering hibernation, usually around September - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: a wealth of the foodplant if you want these wanderers to stay with you. Even then they may decide to wander off on their missions.

This is the longest living British butterfly, the adults living for almost a year including hibernation. They hibernate in evergreen bushes, bramble, or ivy, where they look like leaves themselves.

They breed in the spring only, and the new butterflies that emerge in the high summer wander extensively.

Large White (Pieris brassicae)
------------------------------

![Male Large White](/asset/photo/Large%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Large White](/asset/photo/Large%20White%20female.jpg)

This, and the related Small White, are the two notorious 'Cabbage Whites'. These butterflies wander freely, looking for two things: nectar to keep them fuelled and brassica crops to lay their eggs on. Obviously all gardens have one or both, so these butterflies are very much at home in gardens. We do not actively encourage these two species, but in view of their mobility just mentioned and our garden being a haven for butterflies anyway, we get very good numbers of them. 

CURRENT STATUS: Very common visitor. We do not regularly grow brassicas in our garden - the butterfly often breeds on alternative foodplants grown for the encouragement of the Green-veined White and Orange Tip.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Brassica crops. Also uses honesty, dame's-violet, and garlic mustard.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; verbena bonariensis; red campion; honesty; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; runner bean; marjoram; knapweed; thistles.

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: None - a true pioneer species.

Small White (Pieris rapae)
--------------------------

![Male Small White](/asset/photo/Small%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Small White](/asset/photo/Small%20White%20female.jpg)

CURRENT STATUS: Very common, sometimes abundant visitor. We do not regularly grow brassicas in our garden - the butterfly breeds on alternative foodplants that occur in the garden.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Brassica crops. Garlic mustard, horse radish, oil seed rape.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; verbena bonariensis; marjoram; honesty; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; aubretia; knapweed; thistles; bramble; privet; dandelion; ice plant; Michaelmas daisy;

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - October.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: None - a true pioneer species.

Green-veined White (Pieris napi)
--------------------------------

![Male Green-veined White](/asset/photo/Green-veined%20White%20male.jpg) ![Female Green-veined White](/asset/photo/Green-veined%20White%20female.jpg)

Same sexual differences as for the two previous species. The underside markings are a clear distinction between this and the similar sized Small White - the veins of the wings being noticeably picked out in green, as its name suggests.

This is NOT a Cabbage White. Although the larvae of the two Cabbage Whites will eat the foodplants of the Green-veined, it never happens vice versa. These are true butterflies of the countryside, their caterpillars feeding mostly on wild plants.

CURRENT STATUS: Very well established resident.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Garlic mustard, cuckoo flower, honesty, dame's-violet, oil seed rape and related crucifers. NEVER brassica crops.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Buddleia; dame's-violet; marjoram; scabious; devil's-bit scabious; aubretia; honesty; bramble; privet; verbena bonariensis; knapweed; hemp agrimony.

WHEN SEEN: April - June.  July - September.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: Seemingly very happy here without any specific attention other than the provision of larval foodplants.

Orange Tip (Anthocharis cardamines)
-----------------------------------

![Male Orange Tip](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20male.jpg) ![Female Orange Tip](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20female.jpg)

This is the true harbinger of spring, from April onwards. Only the male has the distinctive orange tip to the forewings. To the novice, females could be mistaken for one of the other Whites, but the underside mottling is a sure give away. Unlike the other Whites, this butterfly is only seen in the spring. This is because the caterpillars eat the developing seed pods of the various foodplants, which are only available in the early months of the season, not the leaves as with the other species that are double brooded.

![Camouflage at its best. When settled with wings tightly closed on umbellifers and the like, the Orange Tip blends in perfectly with the background.](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20camouflage.jpg)

CURRENT STATUS: Very well established resident.

LARVAL FOODPLANT: Garlic mustard, cuckoo flower, honesty, dame's-violet, charlock, oil seed rape.

FAVOURED NECTAR PLANTS: Dame's-violet; honesty; aubretia; red campion; dandelion; bluebell.  

WHEN SEEN: April - June.

SPECIALIST REQUIREMENTS: Untidiness!! Orange Tips provide two good examples of how a wildlife garden cannot be kept too tidy. Every picture tells a story:

![Orange Tip larva](/asset/photo/Orange%20Tip%20larva.jpg) ![Orange Tip pupa](/asset/photo/Orange%20tip%20pupa.jpg)
