data/content/Woodland garden.md, before:

The Woodland Garden
===================

There was not a tree in sight when we started this project, and now it is a mature mini woodland habitat, which is proving to be highly successful. 

![Early shot of  woodland garden planting of original saplings.](/asset/photo/original%20saplings.jpg) ![Mature Woodland Garden 1](/asset/photo/mature%20woodland%20garden%201.jpg) ![Mature Woodland Garden 2](/asset/photo/mature%20woodland%20garden%202.jpg)

There are  fruit trees in the adjacent fruit and veg garden, whilst here in the main woodland we have planted various mainly native trees: alder buckthorn, ash, beech, elder, elm (wych and English), field maple, hawthorn, hazel, holly, hornbeam, oak, rowan, silver birch, whitebeam, wild cherry, and others. More species are to be found in another wooded area at the end of the pond garden (details in that section). Dutch Elm Disease made a reappearance some years back but most of the elms recovered and now appear to be healthy, flowering, and strong.

![Elm tree](/asset/photo/elm.jpg)

We await sightings of the White-letter Hairstreak, an uncommon woodland butterfly that breeds on elm and is very easy to overlook. As yet, we have no confirmed sightings but the habitat is there, waiting for them.

![White-letter Hairstreak](/asset/photo/White-letter%20Hairstreak.jpg)

![Rabbit warren](/asset/photo/Warren.jpg)
{: class="float"}

The ‘hill’ in the NE corner of this garden was in fact the original dumping ground of all the dug out turf over the years when beds were created. This alone is illustrative of the vast work involved. It is now home to a rabbit warren, the animals becoming major pests in the veg garden as well as digging holes in the woodland garden and neighbouring meadow area. 

In addition to adding a totally different perspective to the garden (and providing much needed shady areas!) we have encouraged genuine woodland species of butterfly, especially the Speckled Wood, Holly Blue, Gatekeeper, Ringlet, and in recent years the Silver-washed Fritillary. The White-letter Hairstreak, Purple Hairstreak, and White Admiral are on the target list!

![Speckled Wood](/asset/photo/Speckled%20Wood.jpg) ![Holly Blue](/asset/photo/Holly%20Blue.jpg) ![Gatekeeper](/asset/photo/Gatekeeper.jpg) ![Ringlet](/asset/photo/Ringlet.jpg) ![Silver-washed Fritillary](/asset/photo/Silver-washed%20Fritillary%202.jpg) ![White-letter Hairstreak](/asset/photo/White-letter%20Hairstreak%202.jpg) ![Purple Hairstreak](/asset/photo/Purple%20Hairstreak.jpg) ![White Admiral](/asset/photo/White%20Admiral%202.jpg)

Commit message:

text: addition to woodland garden

data/content/Woodland garden.md, after:

The Woodland Garden
===================

There was not a tree in sight when we started this project, and now it is a mature mini woodland habitat, which is proving to be highly successful. 

![Early shot of  woodland garden planting of original saplings.](/asset/photo/original%20saplings.jpg) ![Mature Woodland Garden 1](/asset/photo/mature%20woodland%20garden%201.jpg) ![Mature Woodland Garden 2](/asset/photo/mature%20woodland%20garden%202.jpg)

There are  fruit trees in the adjacent fruit and veg garden, whilst here in the main woodland we have planted various mainly native trees: alder buckthorn, ash, beech, elder, elm (wych and English), field maple, hawthorn, hazel, holly, hornbeam, oak, rowan, silver birch, whitebeam, wild cherry, and others. More species are to be found in another wooded area at the end of the pond garden (details in that section). Dutch Elm Disease made a reappearance some years back but most of the elms recovered and now appear to be healthy, flowering, and strong.

![Elm tree](/asset/photo/elm.jpg)

We await sightings of the White-letter Hairstreak, an uncommon woodland butterfly that breeds on elm and is very easy to overlook. As yet, we have no confirmed sightings but the habitat is there, waiting for them. This butterfly was a huge success of our previous Derbyshire garden, where a healthy colony had become established on the elms.

![White-letter Hairstreak](/asset/photo/White-letter%20Hairstreak.jpg)

![Rabbit warren](/asset/photo/Warren.jpg)
{: class="float"}

The ‘hill’ in the NE corner of this garden was in fact the original dumping ground of all the dug out turf over the years when beds were created. This alone is illustrative of the vast work involved. It is now home to a rabbit warren, the animals becoming major pests in the veg garden as well as digging holes in the woodland garden and neighbouring meadow area. 

In addition to adding a totally different perspective to the garden (and providing much needed shady areas!) we have encouraged genuine woodland species of butterfly, especially the Speckled Wood, Holly Blue, Gatekeeper, Ringlet, and in recent years the Silver-washed Fritillary. The White-letter Hairstreak, Purple Hairstreak, and White Admiral are on the target list!

![Speckled Wood](/asset/photo/Speckled%20Wood.jpg) ![Holly Blue](/asset/photo/Holly%20Blue.jpg) ![Gatekeeper](/asset/photo/Gatekeeper.jpg) ![Ringlet](/asset/photo/Ringlet.jpg) ![Silver-washed Fritillary](/asset/photo/Silver-washed%20Fritillary%202.jpg) ![White-letter Hairstreak](/asset/photo/White-letter%20Hairstreak%202.jpg) ![Purple Hairstreak](/asset/photo/Purple%20Hairstreak.jpg) ![White Admiral](/asset/photo/White%20Admiral%202.jpg)
